July 2025 newsletter (#436)
maplibre/maplibre.github.io: src/content/news/2025-08-04-maplibre-newsletter-july-2025/index.mdx

<div
  style={{
    backgroundColor: "white",
    padding: "2rem",
    border: "10px solid #cfd8dc",
    borderRadius: "0",
    marginBottom: "3rem",
    display: "flex",
    justifyContent: "center",
    alignItems: "center",
    gap: "2rem",
    flexWrap: "nowrap",
    overflow: "hidden",
    flexDirection: "column",
  }}
>
  <div
    style={{
      display: "flex",
      justifyContent: "center",
      alignItems: "center",
      gap: "2rem",
      flexWrap: "nowrap",
      width: "100%",
    }}
  >
    <Image
      src={maplibreLogo}
      alt="MapLibre logo"
      style={{
        width: "40%",
        maxWidth: "300px",
        height: "auto",
        objectFit: "contain",
      }}
    />
    <Image
      src={jawgmapsLogo}
      alt="Mierune logo"
      style={{
        width: "40%",
        maxWidth: "330px",
        height: "auto",
        objectFit: "contain",
      }}
    />
  </div>
  <div
    style={{
      marginTop: "1rem",
      fontSize: "1rem",
      textAlign: "center",
      color: "#263238",
      fontStyle: "italic",
    }}
  >

>     Sincere thanks to Jawg Maps for their ongoing commitment to MapLibre

Reviewer: This is repeated a bit before and after the image, might be too soon...?

Author: wait - modifying a bit, removing the intro line and retaining it in the image.

          Aug 29, 2025
        </td>
        <td style="padding: 10px 12px; color: #cfd8dc;">
          Governing Board election poll closes (OpaVote)
        </td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

## 📱 MapLibre Native

- **Support for Complex Scripts:** We added support for the new [`font-faces`](https://maplibre.org/maplibre-style-spec/font-faces/) property (see the [implementation PR](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/pull/3611)). This allows you to use TrueType fonts with MapLibre Native. Font files are needed for [text shaping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text_shaping) which many complex (non-latin) scripts require. Thanks goes to Alan Wei Chen, Stefan Karschti and Grab for contributing this functionality.

<div
  style={{
    display: "flex",
    flexDirection: "column",
    alignItems: "center",
    justifyContent: "center",
    marginBottom: "1rem",
  }} >
  <div
    style={{
      display: "flex",
      flexWrap: "wrap",
      justifyContent: "center",
      alignItems: "flex-start",
      gap: "1rem",
    }}
  >
    <Image
      src={myanmarImg}
      alt="Map showing Myanmar with complex script rendering"
      style={{

>         maxWidth: "200px",

Reviewer 2: Consider make them a bit bigger so you can see the text better (may just be my screen).

## 🌐 MapLibre Web

[Version 5.6.1](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/releases/tag/v5.6.1) was released this month with a few bug fixes.
We also sorted the [examples pages](https://maplibre.org/maplibre-gl-js/docs/examples/) in the documentation, for better consistency between the page titles and their locations in the table of contents.
This change might cause a few temporary broken links in google search, but we're sure the broken links will be a short lived problem and expect this to be resolved quickly.

## 📝 Style spec

We've added support in the style-spec for `font-faces` for files and urls which is a huge step forward in order to support eastern scripts and other fonts without the need to pre-process them to glyphs.
The [discussion](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-style-spec/pull/1204) around it was very good with a lot of valuable inputs. Thanks to everyone that participated!

## 🧩 Martin

We’re currently reviewing the final pull request for Martin’s new frontend (including additions like a logo).
Here’s a sneak peak of what's coming:

<Image
  src={martinImg}

>   alt="Sneak peek of Martin UI"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  alt="Sneak peek of Martin UI showing performance metrics, and a tile source catalog, tabs for a style catalog, fonts catalog and sprites catalog"
```

      borderRadius: "0.5rem",
    }}
  />
  <div style={{ textAlign: "center", marginTop: "0.5rem" }}>
    <span style={{ color: "#555", fontStyle: "italic", fontSize: "0.9rem" }}>
      Social image for maplibre-native-rs, Rust native backend of MapLibre.
    </span>
  </div>
</div>

## ✨ Community spotlight

The OpenStreetMap homepage recently introduced [two new featured map layer options](https://blog.openstreetmap.org/2025/07/22/vector-tiles-are-deployed-on-openstreetmap-org/) powered by MapLibre GL JS via `maplibre-gl-leaflet`. There are also [ongoing discussions](https://github.com/openstreetmap/openstreetmap-website/issues/6234) about whether switching from `maplibre-gl-leaflet` to a more “unwrapped” implementation using maplibre-gl-js directly might offer additional benefits.

## 👥 Conferences roundup

Over the past two months, we participated in several key events:

- 🇺🇸 State of the Map US: We delivered hands-on workshops and insightful talks*[Materials available on GitHub](https://github.com/maplibre/workshop/tree/sotmus-2025)*.
- 🇳🇱 FOSS4G Netherlands: A great opportunity to connect with the local FOSS4G community and showcase MapLibre in action.

> - 🇧🇦 FOSS4G Europe (Mostar): The team hosted sessions, demos, and conversations on open mapping*[Workshop materials here](https://github.com/maplibre/workshop/tree/foss4g-eu-2025)*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 🇧🇦 FOSS4G Europe (Mostar): The team hosted sessions, demos, and conversations on open mapping. You can find the workshop materials on [GitHub](https://github.com/maplibre/workshop/tree/foss4g-eu-2025).
```
